# Advanced Meeting Assistant with AI Integration

## Overview

In today’s fast-paced business environment, efficiency is key. Imagine attending a meeting where an advanced AI application captures every conversation, transcribes it with precision, and delivers concise summaries that emphasize critical points and decisions. 

This project empowers you to build such a tool, integrating cutting-edge AI technologies to enhance productivity and streamline communication.

- Link to hugging face Gradio application: https://huggingface.co/spaces/Kelex83/ai_meeting_assistant

## Key Features

- **Accurate Speech-to-Text Conversion**: Leverages OpenAI's Whisper to convert spoken words into highly accurate text transcriptions.  
- **Insightful Content Summarization**: Harnesses IBM Watson AI to provide concise summaries and extract key points from transcribed content.  
- **User-Friendly Interface**: Designed with Hugging Face Gradio, offering an intuitive experience for seamless interaction with the application.  

## Technologies Utilized

- **OpenAI Whisper**: For state-of-the-art speech-to-text capabilities.  
- **IBM Watson AI**: To deliver advanced summarization and key point extraction.  
- **Hugging Face Gradio**: For creating a responsive and user-friendly application interface.  
- **LangChain**: For efficient language model management and workflow optimization.  
- **Transformers Library**: To utilize pre-trained NLP models for enhanced performance in language tasks.  

This project showcases how to integrate leading AI technologies into a cohesive application, transforming traditional meeting management into a streamlined, intelligent process.

## Installation

1. Create a Python virtual environment

   ```bash
   pip3 install virtualenv 
   virtualenv my_env # create a virtual environment my_env
   source my_env/bin/activate # activate my_env
   ```

2. Install the required dependencies:
   
   ```bash
   # installing required libraries in my_env
   pip install transformers==4.35.2 torch==2.1.1 gradio==4.44.0 langchain==0.0.343 ibm_watson_machine_learning==1.0.335 huggingface-hub==0.19.4
   
   ```

- Install ffmpeg to be able to work with audio files in python.

   ```bash
   sudo apt update
   sudo apt install ffmpeg -y
   ```

- I have included a jupyter notebook implementation also: meeting_assistant.ipynb

3. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone ...
   cd ...
   ```

Set up environment variables for API keys and other configurations as needed.

## Usage

Launch the application:

   ```bash
   python3 speech_analyzer.py

Access the user interface through the provided URL and upload your meeting recordings.

View the transcriptions and summaries generated by the application.

## Contributing

We welcome contributions to enhance the functionality and features of this project. Please follow these steps to contribute:

Fork the repository.
Create a new branch for your feature or bug fix.
Commit your changes and push them to your fork.
Submit a pull request with a detailed description of your changes.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for more details.

## Acknowledgments

IBM Corporation for providing the foundational technologies and support.
The open-source community for their invaluable contributions.
